mind roar decisions I'm presh tal Walker
a bee is a chord of the circle x squared
plus y squared is equal to 16 the
tangent at a and B meet at C if M at 1
comma 2 is the midpoint of a B then what
is the area of the kite Oh a CB o is the
origin located at 0 comma 0 I think Neil
Ashe for the suggestion this problem is
adapted from a test in India called the
je e mains pause the video if you'd like
to give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to solve this problem
[Music]
we'll get started by sketching the graph
x squared plus y squared is equal to 16
is a circle with a radius of 4 that's
centered at the origin 0 comma 0 we have
the point M at 1 comma 2 which is the
midpoint of the chord a B we draw
tangents at a and B to meet at a point C
we then connect Oh a and OB which each
have a length of 4 we want to calculate
the area of this kite to get started
we'll draw om we can calculate the
length of OM using the distance formula
OM will have a length equal to the
square root of 1 squared plus 2 squared
which will be equal to the square root
of 5 we then we'll extend MC so that OC
is the other diagonal of the kite let's
now just focus on the kite the diagonals
meet at right angles and the tangents to
the circle also are at right angles so
how can we calculated this kite will
first calculate the length of a M we can
do that using the Gogu theorem a M will
be equal to the square root of 4 squared
minus the square root of 5 squared and
this will simplify to be the square root
of 11 from here we'll use similar
triangles triangle a om is similar to
triangle CoA therefore we have the AO /
om this will be 4 over the square root
of 5 is equal to Co / o a therefore we
can solve for C Oh it'll be equal to 16
divided by the square root of 5 from
here we can calculate the area of the
kite it'll be equal to twice the area of
this triangle and we can calculate the
area of this triangle because it has a
base of 16 divided by the square root of
5 and it is a height equal to the square
root of 11 we substitute that in the air
of a triangle is equal to 1/2 its base
times its height and we get the area of
the kite is equal to 16 multiplied by
the square root of 11 or
the score to five and that's
approximately 23.73
and that's the answer it was a very
intimidating problem but once we
sketched the graph and work step by step
we were able to figure it out
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]